---
title: Introduction
---

`bs-material-ui` provides [ReasonML](https://reasonml.org/) bindings for the
Javascript based UI library [MaterialUi](https://material-ui.com/).

The bindings are automatically generated by utilizing the documentation
generation scripts of the original package. These rely on a mix of code & code
annotations and are not always 100% accurate.

This will directly translate into the bindings. If you come across a missing
prop on a component or a misbehaving component, please feel free to open an
[issue](https://github.com/jsiebern/bs-material-ui/issues).

## Binding format

The automatic nature of the bindings make some parts of it seem a little clunky.
This cannot be avoided, as some things just need to be generalized. Please refer
to the individual sections in `Project Structure` to to see what patterns are
used.

## A word on ReScript vs. ReasonML

Even though the examples folder is already rewritten in `ReScript`, the bindings
source will stay in the `ReasonML` syntax for the foreseeable future. This is
for 2 rather practical reasons:

1. It's a library, so you won't be looking at the code much anyway.
2. The generation process uses plain text generation rather than an AST based
   approach, so it would take some effort to change it.

The documentation will refer to `ReScript` interchangeably for both at this
time.

**Expect breaking changes once `ReScript` is established/stable and the library
code switches to it eventually. Esp. reserved names will change to the
`\"reserved"` syntax all over the place.**
